Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 

Not sure what the first few lines do but the bottom two will print Greetings and store my favorite color as an input.

Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 

The file printed what I had previously said along with the location of Python and the repository.

What do you think the program did with what you typed?

The program stored my input of my favorite color.

Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 

The program now turns the input into a variable called color and it prints it out.

What do you think the color = input() will do? 

It makes whatever is in the input() into the variable color.

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?

The program did indeed do what was expected.

Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 

There is an if/else statement which responds to the variable color's value.

What is happening on lines 11–14? 

An if/else statement 

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 

Because in Python indentations help to tell what blocck of code a statement is in

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 

The code returns Sorry, try again.

What does this tell you about "color"?

It tells me that color is a variable which imput is stored within.

Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 

The If statement contains and or statement in it.

What problem is this trying to solve? 

This is trying to solve the problem of case sensitivity.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?

It still returns Sorry, try again.

Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 

Check if the all lowercase version of the string held in color equals 'red'.

What problem is it trying to solve? 

Case sensitivity

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?

It still returns Sorry, try again.

Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 

It has .strip which I presume strips the string of spaces.

What would you guess .strip() is doing? 

Stripping the code of spaces.

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?

Not that I can think of.

Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 

If pink is input Close will be returned.

What is the purpose of line 11? 

Run the program and answer the question.

To make sure that weather pinl or red is capitalized or followed by spaces it is still read correctly.

Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 

To trigger an event when color does not equal red.

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 

Beccause the indented lines will only trigger if ccolor does not equal red.

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 

Nothing would change unless the input was also changed to read red.

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.

Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 

A while statement is checking if color does not equal red.

What is the purpose of “count”? 

to count how many times the statement has run.

What is happening on line 22? 

The code is print how many times it took to guess the color based on the count.

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?

Yes, I at least tried